K8S handson questions:


I have given the following questions for handson, applied the files, updated the code snippets correctly, and deployed on k8s.

Validate and apply the Secret file given in the SAMPLE namespace, and make sure everything is correct
Validate and apply configmap file given in SAMPLE namespace
Validate and apply the deployment file in the SAMPLE namespace and verify it.
Pass secrets created on 1st step as envs and apply the updated deployment in the SAMPLE namespace
Mount the configmap as a Volume for the deployment and verify the mounted volume.







what are k8s components?
what is etcd?
what is the difference between deployment and replicaset?
what is daemonset?
what is the approach you follow when pod is in crashLoopBackOff to fix the issue?
what is the CICD, gitops approach followed in your earlier projects?
can we mount the same volume paths for both configmap and secerts?
why pods will not be scheduled on the nodes and what are all the possible scenarios and fixes?
how can you ensure the eks cluster is highly available and pods are spread across multi AZs and highly available?



Docker Questions and handson:

what is the techstack used in your earlier projects?
Write a Dockerfile considering Java application and explain it.
what is the default entrypoint/cmd if this is not specified on the Dockerfile while building, what happens without these Docker instructions?
what is the difference between ENTRYPOINT and CMD, as you said ENTRYPOINT cannot be overridden so how it can't be?
what is docker daemon, docker client, docker server?
can you run "docker run --help" command on your system and check for the ENTRYPOINT flag?
After looking into the flag, what do you think ENTRYPOINT can be overridden or not?
what is the command used for building docker image? and what is "." while writing it and when do you specify the -f flag? Do we need to "." while building Docker image? 
can you write the Dockerfile which can be used uniquely across localmachine and CI agent? and how do you maintain the same directory for jar file everywhere?


prometheus:

what is the mechanism used for prometheus?
how does prometheus pulls metrices? and do we need node exporter or kube state metrics for pulling metrices for java applications?
Do we need for java apps to use node exporter?

Terraform:
If 10 instances are created from the console how do you map them on terraform to match the state?


How to connect onprem k8s clusters with AD.
What is OIDC?
Network Troubleshooting scenarios with Security groups, NACL, Route Tables, VPC Peering, Transit Gateway, Network Firewall, etc.
Flow, Involvement, and role of each and every component in k8s while creating resources like pods, deployment, etc.
Detailed understanding on kubeconfig file, Prometheus service discovery, logs, metrics, traces and events, writing multistage Dockerfile, CICD pipeline.
 